DOCS-2300 Add TOTP Documentation (#11277)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/synthetics/guide/browser-tests-totp.md

---

> title: Time-based one time passwords (TOTPs) for multi-factor authentication (MFA)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Time-Based One Time Passwords (TOTPs) For Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)
```

> title: Time-based one time passwords (TOTPs) for multi-factor authentication (MFA)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Time-based one time passwords (TOTPs) for multi-factor authentication (MFA) in Browser tests
```

kind: guide
further_reading:
   - link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/mfa-synthetic-testing-datadog/'
     tag: 'Blog'
     text: 'Introducing multi-factor authentication in Datadog Synthetic tests'
   - link: 'synthetics/settings/?tab=specifyvalue#global-variables'
     tag: 'Documentation'
     text: 'Learn more about global variables'
   - link: 'synthetics/browser_tests/actions/'
     tag: 'Documentation'
     text: 'Learn more about browser test steps'
 
---

> 

Reviewer 2: It feels like we're missing some kind of intro about MFA/TOTP here.

Author: Austin was suggesting to stick to technical aspects as it is a guide and giving the opportunity to read the blog post for more context.

### Store your secret key or QR code in a global variable

> In the Global Variables tab of your Settings page, click Create Global Variable and enter a secret key or upload a QR code from your authentication provider:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the **Global Variables** tab of your **Settings** page, click **Create Global Variable** and enter a secret key or upload a QR code from your authentication provider:
```

> In the **Global Variables** tab of your **Settings** page, click **Create Global Variable** and enter a secret key or upload a QR code from your authentication provider:

Reviewer 2: Let's add just a bit more guidance here: 
```suggestion
The first step is to enter a secret key or upload a QR code from your authentication provider. In the **Global Variables** tab of your **Settings** page, click **Create Global Variable**.
```

> 1. In *Choose variable type*, select *MFA Token*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In **Choose variable type**, select **MFA Token**.
```

> 2. In *Define variable*, enter a *Variable Name*. Your variable name can only use uppercase letters, numbers, and underscores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In **Define variable**, enter a **Variable Name**. Your variable name can only use uppercase letters, numbers, and underscores.
```

> 3. Enter a *Description* for your variable (optional).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter a **Description** for your variable (optional).
```

> 4. Select *Tags* to associate with your variable (optional).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Select **Tags** to associate with your variable (optional).
```

> 5. Enter the *Secret Key* to your variable or upload a QR code image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Enter the **Secret Key** to your variable or upload a QR code image.
```

> 6. Click **+ Generate** to create a TOTP. You can copy the generated TOTP with the Copy icon.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Click **+ Generate** to create a TOTP. You can copy the generated TOTP with the **Copy** icon.
```

> 7. In *Permissions settings*, restrict access to your variable based on roles in your org. For more information about roles, see the [RBAC documentation][1].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. In **Permissions settings**, restrict access to your variable based on roles in your org. For more information about roles, see the [RBAC documentation][1].
```

> 7. In **Permissions settings**, restrict access to your variable based on roles in your org. For more information about roles, see the [RBAC documentation][1].

Reviewer 2: 7. is not available to all users but only the ones with the custom roles flag. Let's clarify that in a way that's not too different from what we have on https://docs.datadoghq.com/synthetics/settings/?tab=createfromhttptest#restrict-access.

> {{< img src="synthetics/guide/browser-tests-totp/synthetic-mfa-setup.png" alt="Create a new MFA token" border="true" popup="true">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="synthetics/guide/browser-tests-totp/new-variable-totp.png" alt="Create a MFA token" style="width:100%;" >}}
```

> ### Test your workflows with TOTP

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use TOTP in your workflows
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Add a note that because we created a GV, it can be used in all Synthetic tests.

> When creating a browser or API test, inject the TOTP generated from the secret key stored in the global variable to verify your application’s authentication workflow.

Reviewer 2: or QR code

> #### TOTP in a browser test recording

Reviewer: I think we can keep "Use TOTP in your workflows" as the header for this section because this subtitle is repetitive.
```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: +1

Reviewer 2: +1, let's use an introductory sentence instead like "Here is an example of what this would look like with a browser test". This way we keep things open in case there are cases we do not know of where this could be done with API tests.

> 

Reviewer 2: Add a bullet point about variable import first to make it crystal clear rather than only relying on the above sentence which is more of an introduction.

> When creating a browser or API test, inject the TOTP generated from the secret key stored in the global variable to verify your application’s authentication workflow.

Author: ```suggestion
When creating a browser or API test, inject the TOTP generated from the secret key or QR code stored in the global variable to verify your application’s authentication workflow.
```

> 1. When recording your test, click the **Hand** icon to generate a TOTP. 

Reviewer 2: Add a bullet point about variable import first to make it crystal clear rather than only relying on the above sentence which is more of an introduction.

> When recording your test, click the Hand icon to generate a TOTP.
> In your test browser application, click in a field to paste the TOTP. Injecting the computed code into your test creates another test step. 
> After recording your test steps, click *Save & Launch Test*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. When recording your test, click the **Hand** icon to generate a TOTP. 
2. In your test browser application, click in a field to paste the TOTP. Injecting the computed code into your test creates another test step. 
3. After recording your test steps, click **Save & Launch Test**.
```

> {{< img src="synthetics/guide/browser-tests-totp/totp_login.mp4" video="true" alt="Demo of recording a TOTP validation">}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< img src="synthetics/guide/browser-tests-totp/mfa-token-totp.mp4" alt="Recording a TOTP validation" video="true" >}}
```

Create a global variable where you enter a secret key or upload a QR code from your authentication provider. In the **Global Variables** tab of your **Settings** page, click **Create Global Variable**.
1. In **Choose variable type**, select **MFA Token**.
2. In **Define variable**, enter a **Variable Name**. Your variable name can only use uppercase letters, numbers, and underscores.
3. Enter a **Description** for your variable (optional).
4. Select **Tags** to associate with your variable (optional).
5. Enter the **Secret Key** to your variable or upload a QR code image.
6. Click **+ Generate** to create a TOTP. You can copy the generated TOTP with the **Copy** icon.
7. In **Permissions settings**, restrict access to your variable based on roles in your org. For more information about roles, see the [RBAC documentation][1].
<div class="alert alert-warning">
RBAC restrict access to global variables is in beta. To request access, contact <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/">Datadog support</a>.</div>  

{{< img src="synthetics/guide/browser-tests-totp/new-variable-totp.png" alt="Create a MFA token" style="width:100%;" >}}

> ### Use TOTP in your Synthetic tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### TOTP in Synthetic tests
```

> You can use the secret key or QR code stored in a global variable across Synthetic tests. When creating a browser or API test, inject the TOTP generated from the secret key or QR code stored in the global variable to verify your application’s authentication workflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use the secret key or QR code stored in a global variable across your Synthetic tests. When creating a browser or API test, inject the TOTP generated from the secret key or QR code stored in the global variable to verify your application’s authentication workflow.
```

---
title: TOTPs For Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) in Browser test
kind: guide
further_reading:
   - link: 'https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/mfa-synthetic-testing-datadog/'
     tag: 'Blog'
     text: 'Introducing multi-factor authentication in Datadog Synthetic tests'
   - link: 'synthetics/settings/?tab=specifyvalue#global-variables'
     tag: 'Documentation'
     text: 'Learn more about global variables'
   - link: 'synthetics/browser_tests/actions/'
     tag: 'Documentation'
     text: 'Learn more about browser test steps'
 
---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-warning">
RBAC restrict access to global variables is in beta. To request access, contact <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/">Datadog support</a>.</div>  

```

Author: I would not do that as TOTP are usable for everyone and only the Permission Tab needs the special action.
I am concerned that it could scare our customers

Author: Would it be possible to put this warning inside the element of the list?

Reviewer: Ok, sounds good!

### Store your secret key or QR code in a global variable

> The first step is to create a global variable where you enter a secret key or upload a QR code from your authentication provider. In the **Global Variables** tab of your **Settings** page, click **Create Global Variable**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a global variable where you enter a secret key or upload a QR code from your authentication provider. In the **Global Variables** tab of your **Settings** page, click **Create Global Variable**.
```

1. In **Choose variable type**, select **MFA Token**.
2. In **Define variable**, enter a **Variable Name**. Your variable name can only use uppercase letters, numbers, and underscores.
3. Enter a **Description** for your variable (optional).
4. Select **Tags** to associate with your variable (optional).
5. Enter the **Secret Key** to your variable or upload a QR code image.
6. Click **+ Generate** to create a TOTP. You can copy the generated TOTP with the **Copy** icon.
7. In **Permissions settings**, restrict access to your variable based on roles in your org. For more information about roles, see the [RBAC documentation][1].

> <div class="alert alert-warning">
> RBAC restrict access to global variables is in beta. To request access, contact <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/">Datadog support</a>.</div>  

Reviewer: Move this banner to the top of the page.
```suggestion
```

{{< img src="synthetics/guide/browser-tests-totp/new-variable-totp.png" alt="Create a MFA token" style="width:100%;" >}}

### Use TOTP in your Synthetic tests

> **Note**: As you stored the secret key or QR code in a global variable, it can be used in all Synthetic tests.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: You can use the secret key or QR code stored in a global variable across Synthetic tests.  
```

> **Note**: You can use the secret key or QR code stored in a global variable across Synthetic tests.  
> When creating a browser or API test, inject the TOTP generated from the secret key or QR code stored in the global variable to verify your application’s authentication workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the secret key or QR code stored in a global variable across Synthetic tests. When creating a browser or API test, inject the TOTP generated from the secret key or QR code stored in the global variable to verify your application’s authentication workflow.
```

> To use TOTP in your browser tests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I would like to keep a sentence of this kind as it makes a separation with the browser test dedicated part

> The example below shows how to use TOTP in your browser tests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use TOTP in your browser tests:
```

1. Import your global variable.

> 1. When recording your test, click the **Hand** icon to generate a TOTP. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. When recording your test, click the **Hand** icon to generate a TOTP. 
```

> 1. In your test browser application, click in a field to paste the TOTP. Injecting the computed code into your test creates another test step. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In your test browser application, click in a field to paste the TOTP. Injecting the computed code into your test creates another test step. 
```

> 1. After recording your test steps, click **Save & Launch Test**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. After recording your test steps, click **Save & Launch Test**.
```
